#summary Definitions and abbreviations

= Definitions and abbreviations =
  * *acoustic fingerprint* - acoustic fingerprint is an identifier generated from an audio signal, that can be used to fuzzily identify a song.
  * *catalog* - a catalog of a user's digital music Collection, *excluding* the actual files.
  * *IP3K* - Firmware in Squeezebox Classic, Boom, Transporter and older devices. 
  * *library* - a user's digital music Collection including a Catalog and the actual files  (compare to a regular library of books).
  * *(online) metadata source* - an online repository of metadata such as "artist", "year" or "genre". Examples: freedb, !MusicBrainz or Discogs.
  * *(music) collection* - digital music files residing on local disc (local Collection) or an online music source (online Collection) that the user has full, high quality access to.
  * *music entity* - a song, album, work, recording, artist, composer, conductor, performer or other time of definition that describes an object related to music metadata. See the "Domain defintions" section below.
  * *online (music) source* - a site that lets the user play specific music (contrast: web radio). Can be free or subscription-based with previews and/or high quality tracks. Examples: Last.FM or Spotify.
  * *preview* - to listen to music in lower quality (lower bitrate, short snippet, interrupted by commercials, ...)
  * *SBS* - !SqueezeBox Server (with Control Panel and Web UI for user and admin) 
  * *SMD* - Social Music Discovery, the abbreviation of the whole project
  * *smdID* - See [Identifiers] for more information
  * *!SqueezePlay* - the desktop version of the Jive / Squeezebox Controller software (http://wiki.slimdevices.com/index.php/SqueezePlay)

See also the [Architecture architecture description] for a description of the different modules in the project.

= Domain definitions =
  * *Album*
    * A number of tracks recorded and released as a set, traditionally on one or a few CDs or LPs.
  * *Artist* (specific type of _Contributor_)
    * A person that significantly contributes to a _Recording_, typically as a singer or one of the lead musicians.
  * *Band* (specific type of _Contributor_)
    * A group of _Contributors_ that contributes to a _Recording_ as a group. A _Band_ may consists of both singers and other kind of musicians.
  * *Compilation*
    * An _Album_ where the _Tracks_ are independently recorded _Recordings_ by the same or different artists. Typical examples are "Greatest Hits" and "Essential Classics".
  * *Composer* (specific type of _Contributor_)
    * A _Contributor_ who has composed the music on a _Song_ or _Work_
  * *Conductor* (specific type of _Contributor_)
    * A _Contributor_ who leads an _Orchestra_ using visible gestures when doing a _Recording_
  * *Contributor*
    * A person or band that in some way contributes to a _Work_/_Song_ or _Recording_. This could be a composer, conductor, artist, band, musician, orchestra, ensemble or some other kind of performer.
  * *Label*
    * A company that is responsible for the production and distribution of a _Recording_, _Single_ or _Album_.
  * *Orchestra* (specific type of _Contributor_)
    * A group of _Contributors_ that contributes to a _Recording_ as a group, a _Orchestra_ typically only consists of musicians and controlled by a _Conductor_.
  * *Part* (sometimes called _Movement_)
    * Specific section of a Work. A _Recording_ can be defined for a whole _Work_ (the _Recording_ of an opera), but sometimes, a _Recording_ can be defined for each _Part_.
  * *Performance* (sometimes called _Recording_)
    * Specific performance of a _Work_, could be either a studio performance or a concert.
  * *Recording* (sometimes called _Performance_)
    * Specific recording of a _Work_, could be either a studio recording or a live concert recording. If the _Work_ is a symphony by Beethoven the _Recording_ would be a recorded performance of that symphony with a specific conductor. A _Remix_ of a recording, for example "radio edit" or "clean version", is a separate _Recording_. 
  * *Release*
    * A release of a specific _Album_, _Single_ or _Recording_. This is used to for example identify the UK and US releases of a specific _Albums_ as individual entities as they might for example have different album covers and/or content (eg. different track order, bonus tracks etc).
  * *Remix*
    * A new version of an existing _Recording_. A _Remix_ is a special type of _Recording_.
  * *Single* (similar to Album)
    * Essentially a single track recorded and released on its own. Traditionally with another song or alternative mix on the flip-side ("B-side"), today often accompanied by alternative mixes of the same track.
  * *Song* (also called Work)
    * A piece of music that may have been recorded several times in different ways by several artists. Original composer(s) is not always known (a song may be "traditional").
  * *Track* 
    * A _Recording_ in one specific _Release_ (the same _Recording_ may appear in several _Releases_)
    * Reference to one or several music files with a specific smdID
    * Reference to a URL pointing to a song in a online music source
  * *Work* (also called Song)
    * A piece of music that may have been recorded several times in different ways by several artists or conductors, often used in classical music instead of _Song_